{\rtf \li720 \fi-720 \sl240 \slmult1 \sa0 Asahara, Masayuki, Nao Ikegami, Tai Suzuki, Taro Ichimura, Asuko Kondo, Sachi Kato, and Makoto Yamazaki. \uc0\u8220{}CHJ-WLSP: Annotation of `Word List by Semantic Principles\uc0\u8217{} Labels for the Corpus of Historical Japanese.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Language Technologies for Historical and Ancient Languages}, edited by Rachele Sprugnoli and Marco Passarotti, 31\uc0\u8211{}37. Marseille, France: European Language Resources Association, 2022. https://aclanthology.org/2022.lt4hala-1.5.\
Baker, Mona. \uc0\u8220{}The Challenges That Lie Ahead: Corpus-Based Translation Studies.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Terminology, LSP and Translation: Studies in Language Engineering in Honour of Juan C. Sager}, edited by Harold Somers, 175. Benjamins Translation Library. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 1996. https://doi.org/10.1075/btl.18.17bak.\
Blum-Kulka, Shoshana. \uc0\u8220{}Shifts of Cohesion and Coherence in Translation.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Interlingual and Intercultural Communication}, edited by Juliane House and Shoshana Blum-Kulka, 17\uc0\u8211{}35. T\uc0\u252{}bingen: G\uc0\u369{}nter Narr, 1986. https://is.muni.cz/publication/591084/en/Shifts-of-Cohesion-and-Coherence-in-Translation/Blum-Kulka-Blum-Kulka-House.\
Brooks, Stephen P., and Andrew Gelman. \uc0\u8220{}General Methods for Monitoring Convergence of Iterative Simulations.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics} 7, no. 4 (December 1, 1998): 434\uc0\u8211{}55. https://doi.org/10/ggfntd.\
B\uc0\u252{}rkner, Paul-Christian. \uc0\u8220{}{\b{}Brms}\uc0\u8239{}: An {\i{}R} Package for Bayesian Multilevel Models Using {\i{}Stan}.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Journal of Statistical Software} 80, no. 1 (2017). https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v080.i01.\
Camilleri, Gabriele. \uc0\u8220{}Evaluating Word Alignment Strategies in a Japanese-Italian Translation Corpus.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Proceedings of JADH Conference} 2024 (2024): 26\uc0\u8211{}28.\
Carl, Michael, and Moritz Schaeffer. \uc0\u8220{}Measuring Translation Literality.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Translation in Transition: Between Cognition, Computing and Technology}, 81\uc0\u8211{}105. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2017. https://doi.org/10.1075/btl.133.03car.\
Chen, Xudong, Hilofumi Yamamoto, and Bor Hodo\uc0\u353{}\uc0\u269{}ek. \uc0\u8220{}Translation-Based Connotation Visualization for Classical Poetic Japanese Vocabulary of the Kokin Wakash\uc0\u363{} ca. 905.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Journal of Computational Literary Studies} 2, no. 1 (February 16, 2024): 1\uc0\u8211{}32. https://doi.org/10.48694/jcls.3596.\
Chesterman, Andrew. \uc0\u8220{}Hypotheses about Translation Universals.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Benjamins Translation Library}, edited by Gyde Hansen, Kirsten Malmkjaer, and Daniel Gile, 50:1\uc0\u8211{}13. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2004. https://doi.org/10.1075/btl.50.02che.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. \uc0\u8220{}Reflections on the Literal Translation Hypothesis.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Methods and Strategies of Process Research: Integrative Approaches in Translation Studies}, edited by Cecilia Alvstad, Adelina Hild, and Elisabet Tiselius, 23\uc0\u8211{}35. Benjamins Translation Library. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2011. https://doi.org/10.1075/btl.94.05che.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. \uc0\u8220{}Why Study Translation Universals?\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Kiasm}, edited by Ritva Hartama-Heinonen and Pirjo Kukkonen, 38\uc0\u8211{}48. Acta Translatologica Helsingiensia (ATH). Helsinki: Helsingfors universitet, Nordica, 2010.\
Edina, Robin. \uc0\u8220{}Translation Universals Revisited.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}FORUM} 15 (January 1, 2016). https://doi.org/10.1075/forum.15.1.03rob.\
Firth, John Rupert. {\i{}Selected Papers, 1952-59}. Edited by Frank Robert Palmer. Harlow: Prentice Hall Press, 1968.\
Hodo\uc0\u353{}\uc0\u269{}ek, Bor, and Hilofumi Yamamoto. \uc0\u8220{}Development of Datasets of the Hachidaish\uc0\u363{} and Tools for the Understanding of the Characteristics and Historical Evolution of Classical Japanese Poetic Vocabulary.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Digital Humanities 2022 Conference Abstracts}, 647\uc0\u8211{}48. Tokyo: The University of Tokyo, 2022.\
Koller, Werner. {\i{}Einf\uc0\u252{}hrung in die \uc0\u220{}bersetzungswissenschaft}. 7., Aktualisierte Aufl. Wiebelsheim: Quelle und Meyer, 1979.\
Malmkj\uc0\u230{}r, Kirsten. \uc0\u8220{}Unit of Translation.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Routledge Encyclopedia of Translation Studies}, edited by Mona Baker and Kirsten Malmkjaer, 286\uc0\u8211{}88. London: Routledge, 2008.\
Nida, Eugene Albert. {\i{}Toward a Science of Translating: With Special Reference to Principles and Procedures Involved in Bible Translating}. Brill Archive, 1964.\
Nida, Eugene Albert, and Charles Russell Taber. {\i{}The Theory and Practice of Translation: With Special Reference to Bible Translating}. Reprint edition. Leiden: Brill Academic Pub, 1969.\
Nunan, David. {\i{}Introducing Discourse Analysis}. 1. publ. Penguin English Applied Linguistics. London: Penguin English, 1993.\
Palladino, Chiara, Farnoosh Shamsian, and Tariq Yousef. \uc0\u8220{}Using Parallel Corpora to Evaluate Translations of Ancient Greek Literary Texts. An Application of Text Alignment for Digital Philology Research.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Journal of Computational Literary Studies} 1, no. 1 (December 13, 2022). https://doi.org/10.48694/jcls.100.\
Pym, Anthony. \uc0\u8220{}On Toury\uc0\u8217{}s Laws of How Translators Translate.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}Beyond Descriptive Translation Studies: Investigations in Homage to Gideon Toury}, edited by Anthony Pym, Miriam Shlesinger, and Daniel Simeoni, 311\uc0\u8211{}28. Benjamins Translation Library. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2008. https://doi.org/10.1075/btl.75.24pym.\
R Core Team. \uc0\u8220{}R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing.\uc0\u8221{} Vienna, Austria, 2024. https://www.R-project.org/.\
Sankoff, D. \uc0\u8220{}Matching Sequences under Deletion-Insertion Constraints.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America} 69, no. 1 (January 1972): 4\uc0\u8211{}6. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.69.1.4.\
Schramm, Wilbur Lang. {\i{}The Process and Effects of Mass Communication}. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1954.\
Shiozawa, Kazuko. \uc0\u8220{}Motoori Norinaga, \uc0\u8216{}Kokinshu Tokagami\uc0\u8217{} Ni Okeru Keijo Jodoshi: \uc0\u8216{}Shiyaru\uc0\u8217{}, \uc0\u8216{}sashiyaru\uc0\u8217{} o Megutte (Motoori Norinaga\uc0\u8217{}s Humble Auxiliary Verb in the Kokinshu Tokagami: \uc0\u8216{}Shiyaru\uc0\u8217{}, \uc0\u8217{}Sashiyaru\uc0\u8217{}).\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Kindaigo Kenkyu (Study of Contemporary Vocabulary)} 9 (1993): 143\uc0\u8211{}60.\
Sinclair, John McHardy. {\i{}Reading Concordances}. First Edition. London: Pearson ESL, 2003.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. \uc0\u8220{}The Search for Units of Meaning.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Textus} 9 (1996): 75\uc0\u8211{}106.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. {\i{}Trust the Text: Language, Corpus and Discourse}. Edited by Ronald Carter. 1st ed. London\uc0\u8239{}; New York: Routledge, 2004. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203594070.\
Stubbs, Michael. {\i{}Words and Phrases: Corpus Studies of Lexical Semantics}. Oxford\uc0\u8239{}; Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, 2001.\
Traum, David, and Nizar Habash. \uc0\u8220{}Generation from Lexical Conceptual Structures.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}NAACL-ANLP 2000 Workshop: Applied Interlinguas: Practical Applications of Interlingual Approaches to NLP}, 2000. https://aclanthology.org/W00-0207.\
Tymoczko, Maria. \uc0\u8220{}Computerized Corpora and the Future of Translation Studies.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Meta\uc0\u8239{}: journal des traducteurs / Meta: Translators\uc0\u8217{} Journal} 43, no. 4 (1998): 652\uc0\u8211{}60. https://doi.org/10.7202/004515ar.\
Vinay, Jean-Paul|Darbelnet. {\i{}Comparative Stylistics of French and English}. {\i{}Btl.11}. John Benjamins Publishing Company, 1958. https://benjamins.com/catalog/btl.11.\
Yamamoto, Hilofumi. \uc0\u8220{}A Mathematical Analysis of the Connotations of Classical Japanese Poetic Vocabulary.\uc0\u8221{} PhD dissertation, The Austrilian National University, 2005. https://openresearch-repository.anu.edu.au/handle/1885/151572.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. \uc0\u8220{}Extraction and visualisation of the connotation of classical Japanese Poetic Vocabulary -How to construct semantic space by graph-.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Proceedings of Symposium for Computers and the Humanities Symposium 2006 (Jinmoncom 2006)} 2006 (December 14, 2006): 21\uc0\u8211{}28.\
Yamamoto, Hilofumi, and Bor Hodo\uc0\u353{}\uc0\u269{}ek. \uc0\u8220{}An Analysis of the Differences Between Classical and Contemporary Poetic Vocabulary of the Kokinshu.\uc0\u8221{} In {\i{}The 9th Conference of Japanese Association for Digital Humanities (JADH2019) \uc0\u8220{}Localization in Global DH,\uc0\u8221{}} 68\uc0\u8211{}71. Japanese Association for Digital Humanities, 2019. http://t2r2.star.titech.ac.jp/cgi-bin/publicationinfo.cgi?q_publication_content_number=CTT100800689.\
Yu, Shaoyun, and Katsuo Tamaoka. \uc0\u8220{}Trade-off Effect in the Processing of Korean Case-Drop Sentences: An Eye Tracking Investigation.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Human Behaviour and Brain}, June 5, 2020. https://doi.org/10.37716/HBAB.2020010203.\
\uc0\u20037{}\uc0\u26365{}\uc0\u31070{}\uc0\u26119{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{} \uc0\u20840{}\uc0\u27880{}\uc0\u37320{}. Vol. 1\uc0\u8211{}5. 5 vols. \uc0\u35611{}\uc0\u35527{}\uc0\u31038{}\uc0\u23398{}\uc0\u34899{}\uc0\u25991{}\uc0\u24235{}. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u35611{}\uc0\u35527{}\uc0\u31038{}, 1979.\
\uc0\u22885{}\uc0\u26449{}\uc0\u24646{}\uc0\u21705{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}. \uc0\u26032{}\uc0\u28526{}\uc0\u26085{}\uc0\u26412{}\uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20856{}\uc0\u38598{}\uc0\u25104{}. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u26032{}\uc0\u28526{}\uc0\u31038{}, 1978.\
\uc0\u23567{}\uc0\u23798{}\uc0\u25010{}\uc0\u20043{}, and \uc0\u26032{}\uc0\u20117{}\uc0\u26628{}\uc0\u34101{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u23721{}\uc0\u27874{}\uc0\u26360{}\uc0\u24215{}, 1989.\
\uc0\u23567{}\uc0\u27810{}\uc0\u27491{}\uc0\u22827{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}. 13th ed. \uc0\u26085{}\uc0\u26412{}\uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20856{}\uc0\u25991{}\uc0\u23398{}\uc0\u20840{}\uc0\u38598{}. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u23567{}\uc0\u23398{}\uc0\u39208{}, 1971. https://www.kosho.or.jp/products/detail.php?product_id=338279402.\
\uc0\u23567{}\uc0\u30010{}\uc0\u35895{}\uc0\u29031{}\uc0\u24422{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}\uc0\u65306{}\uc0\u29694{}\uc0\u20195{}\uc0\u35486{}\uc0\u35379{}\uc0\u23550{}\uc0\u29031{}. \uc0\u26106{}\uc0\u25991{}\uc0\u31038{}\uc0\u25991{}\uc0\u24235{}. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u26106{}\uc0\u25991{}\uc0\u31038{}, 1982.\
\uc0\u26494{}\uc0\u30000{}\uc0\u27494{}\uc0\u22827{}. \uc0\u26032{}\uc0\u37320{}\uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}. Vol. \uc0\u19978{}\uc0\u19979{}. 2 vols. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u39080{}\uc0\u38291{}\uc0\u26360{}\uc0\u25151{}, 1968.\
\uc0\u29255{}\uc0\u26704{}\uc0\u27915{}\uc0\u19968{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}\uc0\u20840{}\uc0\u35413{}\uc0\u37320{}. Vol. \uc0\u19978{}\uc0\u20013{}\uc0\u19979{}. 3 vols. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u35611{}\uc0\u35527{}\uc0\u31038{}, 1998.\
\uc0\u31402{}\uc0\u30000{}\uc0\u31354{}\uc0\u31298{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}\uc0\u35413{}\uc0\u37320{}. Vol. \uc0\u19978{}\uc0\u20013{}\uc0\u19979{}. 3 vols. Tokyo: Tokyodo, 1960.\
\uc0\u31481{}\uc0\u23713{}\uc0\u27491{}\uc0\u22827{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}\uc0\u20840{}\uc0\u35413{}\uc0\u37320{}: \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u27880{}\uc0\u19971{}\uc0\u31278{}\uc0\u38598{}\uc0\u25104{}. Vol. \uc0\u19978{}\uc0\u19979{}. 2 vols. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u21491{}\uc0\u25991{}\uc0\u26360{}\uc0\u38498{}, 1976.\
\uc0\u37329{}\uc0\u23376{}\uc0\u20803{}\uc0\u33251{}. \uc0\u21476{}\uc0\u20170{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u27468{}\uc0\u38598{}\uc0\u35413{}\uc0\u37320{}: \uc0\u26157{}\uc0\u21644{}\uc0\u26032{}\uc0\u29256{}. \uc0\u26481{}\uc0\u20140{}: \uc0\u26126{}\uc0\u27835{}\uc0\u26360{}\uc0\u38498{}, 1933.\
}